for the first time in youtube history
starting things off on a bad note I'm
just kidding here's the normal insane
riff whatever that you guys have been
calling him I don't even know what you
call it
how's it going everyone here is a follow
up video to the sweet picking video that
I posted I don't know how long ago now
if you you have been asking for a
follow-up I'm not exactly sure what you
want from this video but my
understanding is that you want a few
licks and riffs whatever to help you
practice your sweet picking so here are
the ones that I more or less created to
help my or aid my improvement in sweet
picking so um before I get started
you're going to need to pull up the
sweet patterns that I posted in the
sweet picking video in the description
box and just for me familiarize yourself
with those we're going to be using those
patterns and all three of these
exercises um I can't think of anything
else to say so let's just begin the
first lick or riff really uses the first
two patterns on the on the pattern
document picture whatever you want to
call it which would be this one
and this one now what we'll be doing is
using those two and playing them twice
through in three different positions on
the neck so we'll start the first
pattern at the tenth fret on the fifth
string play through twice then start the
second pattern on the 15th fret on the
fifth string play through it twice move
that same pattern pattern to up two
frets to the 17th play it through twice
move back down to the 15th play it twice
again and then move back down with
pattern one at the 10th again so it
should sound something like this
you get the idea um practice with a
metronome if you have one I suggest you
put it on triplets triplets being 123
123 123 123 123 and you should give one
note per click if you have the option
depth of cut the gutta and I just put it
yeah you get the idea I designed most of
these to be played in triplets mainly
because they're only a five string sweep
and well pretty much it sounds good plus
it kind of gives it that whimsical kind
of a demented feel to it I don't know
it's very helpful one and now there's a
lot of Emperor I think let's see
Ensiferum did it on the goblins track I
don't remember goblins dance this world
is called well anyways um so yeah play
with triplets this next pattern uh or
this next riff more or less uses
patterns one and four i believe which
would be one would be the same this one
right here
that one and then for being this one the
only thing is with four we're going to
cut out the tap to keep it in that
triplets feel so starting we're going to
play twice again and then move to the
different position the first pattern
we're going to start again on the 10th
fret and then the second pattern when we
move to the second pattern will start
the first note in the ninth fret so you
kind of get this I guess uh I don't know
how to describe it
you get the idea again play it through
oh I can't stress this enough Paul mute
of course I put it in bazillion
different places on videos now but can't
stress it enough apparently this last
one I'm going to put up is a six-string
sweep you're going to have to use
quarter notes or 16th notes for the this
is for the more a little bit more
advanced on the on the technique and
make things a little bit more difficult
we're going to more or less put in a big
movement between the two positions so
this is going to be using entire league
pattern 5 i believe i think it's the
only six string sweep that i put on it
on the sweet patterns but we're going to
be put playing it starting in the 10th
fret 6th string and then when we move it
again we're going to be putting it in
the 14th fret on the sixth string so it
just it should sound something like this
you got the idea um you guys know how to
reach me I'm pretty quick about
responses so uh personal message
comments whatever you want peace